Tia El Masry 
300160596
Seg 4105 
Tutorial 4

Chapter 7 Summary:

This chapter discusses the difference between bets and backlogs. Backlogs are a big big list of tasks that continue to pile up that simply never ends. Backlogs end up being a big waste of time overall for everyone on the team. Instead of a backlog, the better alternative is bets. At every cycle, the stakeholders look at pitches at the betting table from the last six weeks only. This limits the ideas that get reviewed and have the potential to get worked on as opposed to a backlog of ideas that’s always full. Anything that doesn’t get betted on is let go. If there’s items that don’t get betted on, however they are great ideas with simply the wrong time, they get tracked independently. They don’t get put into a backlog, they simply get tracked depending on the different teams that are working on it. If there’s a very important idea, it will never get lost or forgotten, it will always come back to get worked on. 

Chapter 8 Summary:

This chapter discusses the process of the betting table. As we get bets to work on, we start working in six-week cycles. These cycles give projects a size in terms of shaping and scheduling. Sprints which are two-week cycles are considered too short to get anything meaningful completed. After trying many different periods, six-weeks were chosen to be enough to get work done, however still short enough to feel the deadline and make decisions to finish the project. In between six-week cycles we have two week cycles to cool down and get a chance to fix bugs and explore new thoughts. There’s also two types of teams: big batch teams that work on one project throughout the cycle and small batch teams that work on a set of smaller projects throughout the cycle. During the cool down, the betting table meeting is also held where the work is decided for the next cycle. We use the word bet for specific reasons. Bets result in something, therefore there is something accomplished at the end, they are also a commitment and they minimize the loss if the project doesn’t work out the worst case scenario, there’s only six weeks lost. The six week cycles are a time where the team only focuses on the project and nothing else. Bugs are also not forgotten, there are 3 ways to deal with them: using the cool-down to deal with them, bringing them to the betting table and pitching them so they get added to the cycle and having an annual bug smash dedicated to fixing bugs. This is how the betting table organizes the pitched work that needs to be completed.

Chapter 9 Summary:

This chapter discusses placing the bets that have been formed. There are two situations that a team can be in when taking on bets either adding features to existing products or creating new products from scratch. All new products follow the same path of 3 modes: R&D mode, Production mode, and Cleanup mode. R&D mode is the first stage of a new product, therefore there are many unknowns, and that’s why it becomes different from a normal cycle. It is different as we no longer bet on pitches but on time that will be spent on spiking main elements of the product, and it also gets worked on by the senior people so that they can make up concrete decisions about the product and finally at the end of this cycle, there won’t be anything shipped or in production. In Production mode, we see shaping go back to its original state, the regular team of developers and designers working on the project and the end goal of a cycle in this mode is shipping and completing what we bet on. In Cleanup mode, we return to the bug small mentality where we try to clean and fix as much as we can of the product, this mode also creates an “all hands on deck” situation where everyone helps out and the work is regularly shipped. With the different product features examples, we can see that every product is different. Some projects or features will take a few R&D cycles, then go straight to production, and some will take years for each mode of cycles to be done, and some will require experimental cycles just to determine if they are worth pursuing. Not every project will have a magic recipe that will work. There’s elements to consider when going through each product such as: is this project or problem worth the time and effort being poured into it, did we shape it properly before starting to work on it, did we think of the solution in the correct way or do we need to change it, can we even pull this project off with the resources on hand. 
